Jesus never intended Christian community to be an exclusive club.
He wants us to reflect his love by serving those around us, to invest in their lives and invite them to engage with God in their own spiritual journey.
Tonight, Jeff Henderson reminds us that Jesus wants us to be his hands and his feet to those in need.
He wants us to be the church.
My name is Aloha Davis and when my husband Mike and I were looking for a place to plug in internationally and serve, we heard about Cambodia and an orphanage that our church was working with over there.
When we first landed in Cambodia and stepped off the plane, little did we know that we were just going to fall in love with those kids, that they were going to completely change our lives.
A lot of us had been friends and we all got married about the same time.
And when we got married, we all ended up.
just living in the same place. and we felt like.
that we were in this community on purpose, that we knew God had brought us here.
And we just started to ask, what is it that...
Only we can do in our community.
The answer was, well, we can very simply just be serving our neighborhood and praying for our neighborhood.
on a daily basis. So throughout my life, I've traveled a lot. I've been a guy who certainly
Try to.
make a lot of money and do the things that I thought were proper to do.
And in that process, I really didn't get a chance to give back much.
You know, I heard about the mentoring program. when I heard about it, I jumped right out. I said, this is something I want to do.
I think the thing that made me just...
Fall head over heels in love with the kids was just their spirit they had
Almost nothing. They didn't have parents that can provide for them. We really wanted to keep in touch with one boy in particular.
And we were able to set up sort of a sponsorship program where we would send money for food and clothes and daily needs and tutors for education.
We're also able to keep communication with them through letter writing.
Every other month or so we like to gather and just invite people and open up our homes. People know what they're coming to.
And we're not going to sing songs. We have churches that do that, and that's great. We're not going to preach a sermon. We've got preachers that do that, and they're great. We're just going to ask how can we make
How can we serve and how can we pray?
I never really pictured myself doing this. I was very selfish.
Involved person for very many years and
You know, when I thought about this, I had no idea what it was going to be like. So these are the two boys that I'm mentoring. This is Tarion here, Donato here.
And they're both fourth graders here at Woodson Elementary. You know, we study things, we study mathematics, read a book.
We...
do the things that we need to do for school, and then we have some fun. Today we play go fish and
It's been a very good experience.
After our first trip, we were really excited at the prospect of coming back. And so we took about a month to pray about it. We were led to apply for leadership for the future.
for the next trip. So we took four people who we really wanted with the first time back with us and then we were able to grab about five more people and go over with a team of 11.
11.
We're reaching out to our neighborhood to provide, you know, physical needs and to love one another and all of that, but also from a spiritual standpoint. We understand
There's somebody in the community who's older and elderly and they need their house painted and no one's going to come along and do that for them and we can do that.
Our sense of community has sort of changed. We realize it's not just our friends in our neighborhood and our community group that meets weekly, but we have this bigger community.
community that we're a part of, we all kind of have our own part to play. Not only is there a community that actually goes, but there's a community at home that supports the trip that supports the trip.
It supports the people who are going through prayer financially or just encouragement.
In my life, I've been a taker.
All my life and now I have a chance to give back.
God is using a community of people here who chose to go.
And because they chose to go, because they stepped down on faith, because they got out of their comfort zone, their lives are forever changed. And the lives of the kids in Cambodia are forever changed. And now,
and they'll have the support system and they'll feel loved and they'll feel like they have a solid donation to start their lives on. There's no program.
And there's no church and there's no ministry that can love your neighbor like you can.
This is really a way of doing life for us now that is living out what we really think it means to be the church and to be a Christian in our community.
Thank you
This park is one of the favorite places our small group comes on a regular basis. There's great restaurants here. It's got this wide open area. They have concerts from time to time, so sometimes we'll just bring a picnic.
Nick or we'll meet at one of the restaurants and just kind of hang out and it's this great central meeting place for our small group and it's also a great reminder for us to kind of get outside of the four walls of the home that we live in
that we meet in. But when we're here, it's also a reminder for us that we're, as a small group, not just called to enjoy our community.
But also call it to serve our community.
Because not too far from here, there's an organization that we serve that's doing some incredible things for families and children who are in need. For several years now, I've been a small group leader and
and we meet for every 18 months to two years. And at the end of that small group, I'll ask on our final night together, "Hey, what are your top three memories as a small group?" And every
And every single time, if it's not number one, going out and serving in the community will be in the top three. It's just something that
bonds the relationships and propels the small group further. I love being inside the four walls. I love meeting, but we've got to get outside the four walls to begin to understand.
We want to talk about this week, which is be the church. Not just talk about the church, just not read about the church, but go out and tangibly meet the needs of people in our community.
community. We love doing that.
Because here's what I know about your community.
Your community probably has a park like this, probably similar to this, and your community also has some ministry organizations that are trying to help people in need.
And what they need are people like you.
And so we want to challenge you as a small group. What is that one organization or what is that one opportunity? What does that look like? Who do you want to help?
How often do you do that? Is that a monthly? Is that a quarterly thing? How do you do that? That's up to you to decide. We're just here to kind of inspire you and challenge you and tell you, this is what you're
This is one of the most significant things that you can do.
As a small group.
Now, I don't say this out of theory. As I mentioned, as a small group leader, I've been leading small groups to do this for quite a while now.
In fact, a few years ago, a friend of mine said, "Hey, did you know that the city that you live in has more children living below the poverty line than any other major city in America?"
So we began to talk about in our small group, hey, we live in metropolitan Atlanta.
We need to do something. We probably can't solve that as a small group, but I bet we can do something.
But then we began to talk to other small groups and we came up with this idea. What if we went
To the local school, there was the highest poverty rate in our city.
And ask the principal of that school
How can we help?
and the principal said this.
School's about to start in a few weeks. If you could help us provide a brand new pair of shoes for our students, that would be incredible.
So we talked to our other small group friends and then we presented it to our church and on a particular Sunday we said hey whatever cash that comes in today we're going to take that cash and we're going to try to buy as soon
Buy as many pairs of shoes as possible.
So that Sunday came, we got the cash in and we counted the cash. And not only did we have enough money to go out and pay for every pair of shoes for every child in that school,
We had enough money left over to buy a playground for that school and for three months provide each child.
With an afternoon snack as they went home.
My point is this.
Who knows what God wants to do through your small group in your community?
It doesn't have to be big, it can start small.
I can't encourage you enough to go out into your community and be the church, not only for the community,
But also for your group.
Thank you.
At your next group meeting, you'll sign the group agreement and commit to spending the next year or two together. Now, we don't want you to make any specific plans yet for serving together, but tonight would be a great opportunity.
For you to talk about the importance of serving together and make some preliminary plans for how you're going to serve together after you sign your group agreement.
Your leader's gonna take it from here.